---
title: "Exploratory Data Analysis - COVID-19"
excerpt: "Visualization of COVID19 data using Plotly python package"
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/COVIDHeader.jpg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/COVIDHeader.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com)"
author_profile: true
categories:
  - Data Science
tags:
  - COVID19
  - EDA
  - Visualization
  - plotly
classes: wide
---

## The Beginning...
COVID-19, a novel form of coronavirus family, was first identified in Wuhan, China in December 2019. From then on, it swiftly spread to other countries to the extent that the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a **pandemic** on March 11.

Since inception, the infamous virus has caused major disruptions in almost every aspect of life and continues to affect millions all around the world. While state of normalcy seems distant, it is clearly evident that practicing social distancing, quarantine, and isolation are flattening the curve and aiding in contamination the virus.   

## Countries Impacted Over Time
Although the rate of impact seemed constant in early February, the curve had reached an unquestionable inflection point towards the end of the month.

***Click on "Play" to see the animation.***
{% include countriesaffected.html %}

## World Map - Confirmed Cases

The interactive world map is built using the plotly's choropleth feature to visualize the confirmed case count of different countries. To adjust to the non-uniform range of values, the confirmed numbers have been converted to a log scale.

{% include confirmedcasesworldmap.html %}

## World Trend Over Time

A line chart showing the trend of confirmed, recovered, and death figures over time.  

{% include worldtrend.html %}

## Cases Per Day - Top 3 Countries

The declining rate of confirmed cases in the top 3 countries has definitely alleviated concerns and brings hope to investors in restoring the economy.

{% include casesperday.html %}

## World Confirmed Cases - Time Lapse

Time lapse showing the traversal of the virus over time.

{% include worldconfirmedtimelapse.html %}

## US Confirmed Cases Heat Map

County level heat map showing the range of confirmed cases across US. Click on the color legend to filter out counties.

{% include usheatmap.html %}

## Top 10 States in the US
New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts are among the top states that are highly affected by the pandemic with New York being considered as the epicenter of the American coronavirus outbreak.

{% include top10states.html %}

<p>&nbsp;</p>

For more visualizations and the python code, please visit *[GitHub](https://github.com/jatinselmokar/COVID-19-Exploratory-Data-Analysis-Using-PyPlot)* link.


<!--
<p> Race chart of the trend - </p>

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-bar-chart-race" data-src="visualisation/1873703" data-url="https://flo.uri.sh/visualisation/1873703/embed"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div> -->
